add v8.5.5 release notes (#22190)
pingcap/docs: releases/release-8.5.5.md

---
title: TiDB 8.5.5 Release Notes
summary: Learn about the features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.5.
---

# TiDB 8.5.5 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2026

TiDB version: 8.5.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Features

### Scalability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Performance

> * Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from compacted log backups for faster restores [#56522](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56522) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

Author: ```suggestion
* Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from compacted log backups for faster restores [#56522](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56522) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) **tw@lilin90** <!--2001--> <!--TBD-->
```

    Starting from v8.5.5, the log backup compaction feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. This results in the following improvements:

    - **Improved recovery performance** - SST files can be more quickly imported into the cluster.
    - **Reduced storage space consumption** - redundant data is removed during compaction.
    - **Reduced impact on applications** - RPOs can be amintained with less frequent full snapshot-based backups.

  For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-compact-log-backup.md).

> * Accelerated recovery of system tables from backups [#58757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58757) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Accelerated recovery of system tables from backups [#58757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58757) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@lilin90** <!--2109-->
```

    When restoring system tables from a backup, BR now introduces a new `--fast-load-sys-tables` parameter to use physical restoration instead of logical restoration. This option completely overwrites/replaces the existing tables, instead of restoring into them, for faster restoration for large scale deployments.

    For more information, see [Documentation](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-tables-in-the-mysql-schema).

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Reliability

* Improved store scheduling in presence of network jitter [#9359](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9359) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@qiancai** <!--2260-->

>     Provides a network status feedback mechanism to PD to avoid scheduling the leaders back to a problematic node (experiencing network jitter) after the leaders had been transferred off the node by TiKVs detection of the network jitter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Provides a network status feedback mechanism to PD to avoid re-scheduling the leaders back to a problematic node (experiencing network jitter) after the leaders had been transferred off the node by TiKV raft mechanism. If the network continues to jitter, PD will actively evict leader from jittering node.
```

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Availability

> * Introduce Client Circuit Breaker Pettern for PD [#8678](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8678) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--2051-->

Reviewer 2: LGTM

    To protect the PD leader from overloading due to retry storms or similar feedback loops, a circuit breaker pattern is introduced to limit incoming traffic (when a threshold of errors is reached) to enable the system to stabilize. The `tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio` system variable is used to control the application of the circuit breaker.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio-new-in-v900).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio-new-in-v855).
```

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### SQL

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### DB operations

* Improve the compatibility between ongoing log backup and snapshot restore [#58685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58685) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger)

    Starting from v8.5.5, log backups can continue to run when performing a snapshot restore (when prerequisite conditions are met). This enables ongoing log backups to proceed without having to stop them during the restore procedure. The newly restored data will also be recorded in the ongoing log backup.

>     For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#compatibility-between-ongoing-log-backup-and-snapshot-restore).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#compatibility-between-ongoing-log-backup-and-snapshot-restore).
```

    优化策略包括：

    - 在严格 SQL 模式下，预先检查类型转换过程中是否存在数据截断风险；
    - 若不存在数据截断风险，则仅更新元数据，尽量避免索引重建；
    - 如需重建索引，则采用更高效的 Ingest 流程，大幅提升索引重建性能。

    性能提升示例（基于 100 GiB 表的基准测试）：

    | 场景 | 操作类型 | 优化前 | 优化后 | 性能提升 |
    |------|----------|--------|--------|----------|
    | 无索引列 | `BIGINT → INT` | 2 小时 34 分 | 1 分 5 秒 | 142× |
    | 有索引列 | `BIGINT → INT` | 6 小时 25 分 | 0.05 秒 | 460,000× |
    | 有索引列 | `CHAR(120) → VARCHAR(60)` | 7 小时 16 分 | 12 分 56 秒 | 34× |

    注：以上数据基于 DDL 执行过程中未发生数据截断的前提。以上优化对于有 TiFlash 副本的表，以及 sign <--> unsign 数据类型修改的场景不会生效。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

* 优化了存在大量外键场景下的 DDL 性能，逻辑 DDL 性能最高可提升 25 倍 [#61126](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61126) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1896-->

    在 v8.5.5 版本之前，当一些用户单个集群的表数量达到 1000 万级别，且其中有几十万张表有外键的场景，创建表，给表加列这些逻辑 DDL 的性能 QPS 会降低到 4，使得一些多租户的 SaaS 场景下的运维操作变得非常低效。在 v8.5.5 对该场景做了优化。经测试，1000 万张表，其中 20 万张表有外键的场景下，创建表，加列这类逻辑 DDL 的性能 QPS 稳定保持在 100，性能有 25 倍的提升。

>     更多信息，请参考[用户文档](链接)。

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Improve DDL performance in scenarios with a large number of foreign keys, with up to a 25x increase in logical DDL performance [#61126](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61126) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD) **tw@hfxsd** <!--1896-->

    Before v8.5.5, in scenarios involving ultra-large-scale tables (for example, a cluster with 10 million tables in total, including hundreds of thousands of tables with foreign keys), the performance of logical DDL operations (such as creating tables or adding columns) can drop to approximately 4 QPS. This leads to low operational efficiency in multi-tenant SaaS environments.

    TiDB v8.5.5 optimizes these scenarios. Test results show that in an extreme environment with 10 million tables (including 200,000 tables with foreign keys), the logical DDL processing performance consistently maintains 100 QPS. Compared to previous versions, the performance is improved by 25 times, significantly enhancing the operational responsiveness of ultra-large-scale clusters.
```

> * 提示索引下推到TiKV提升查询性能 [#62575](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62575) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@qiancai** <!--1899-->

Author: ```suggestion
* 提示索引下推到TiKV提升查询性能 [#62575](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62575) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao) **tw@Oreoxmt** <!--1899-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#compatibility-between-ongoing-log-backup-and-snapshot-restore).

* Table level restores from Log Backups [#57613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57613) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@lilin90** <!--2005-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, individual table level point in time recoveries can now be performed from log backups using filters. Being able to restore individual tables, instead of the full cluster, to a specific point in time enables much more flexible, and less impactful, recovery options.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#restore-data-using-filters).

### Observability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

### Security

> * Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage. **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->
```

  For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-compact-log-backup.md).

* Accelerated recovery of system tables from backups [#58757](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58757) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth) **tw@lilin90** <!--2109-->

    When restoring system tables from a backup, BR now introduces a new `--fast-load-sys-tables` parameter to use physical restoration instead of logical restoration. This option completely overwrites/replaces the existing tables, instead of restoring into them, for faster restoration for large scale deployments.

    For more information, see [Documentation](/br/br-snapshot-guide.md#restore-tables-in-the-mysql-schema).

### Reliability

* Improved store scheduling in presence of network jitter [#9359](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9359) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang) **tw@qiancai** <!--2260-->

    Provides a network status feedback mechanism to PD to avoid re-scheduling the leaders back to a problematic node (experiencing network jitter) after the leaders had been transferred off the node by TiKV raft mechanism. If the network continues to jitter, PD will actively evict leader from jittering node.

### Availability

> * Introduce Client Circuit Breaker Pettern for PD [#8678](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8678) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--2051-->

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* Introduce the client circuit breaker pattern for PD [#8678](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8678) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--2051-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#compatibility-between-ongoing-log-backup-and-snapshot-restore).

* Table level restores from Log Backups [#57613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57613) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@lilin90** <!--2005-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, individual table level point in time recoveries can now be performed from log backups using filters. Being able to restore individual tables, instead of the full cluster, to a specific point in time enables much more flexible, and less impactful, recovery options.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#restore-data-using-filters).

### Observability

* Placeholder for feature summary [#Issue-number](issue-link) @[Contributor-GitHub-ID](id-link) **tw@xxx** <!--1234-->

    Provide a concise overview of what the feature is, the value it offers to users, and include a brief sentence on how to use it effectively. If there are any particularly important aspects of this feature, be sure to mention them as well.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](link).

Author: ```suggestion
* Add storage engine identifiers to statement summary tables and slow query logs [#61736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61736) @[henrybw](https://github.com/henrybw) **tw@Oreoxmt**<!--2034 -->

    When both TiKV and TiFlash are deployed in a cluster, users often need to filter SQL statements by storage engine during database diagnostics and performance optimization. For example, if TiFlash is under high load, users might need to identify SQL statements running on TiFlash to locate potential causes. To meet this need, starting from v9.0.0, TiDB adds storage engine identifier fields to statement summary tables and slow query logs.

    New fields in [statement summary tables](/statement-summary-tables.md):

    * `STORAGE_KV`: `1` indicates that the SQL statement accesses TiKV.
    * `STORAGE_MPP`: `1` indicates that the SQL statement accesses TiFlash.

    New fields in [slow query logs](/identify-slow-queries.md):

    * `Storage_from_kv`: `true` indicates that the SQL statement accesses TiKV.
    * `Storage_from_mpp`: `true` indicates that the SQL statement accesses TiFlash.

    This feature simplifies workflows in certain diagnostics and performance optimization scenarios and improves issue identification efficiency.

    For more information, see [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) and [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md).
```

    This enhancement is particularly useful for enterprise customers running TiDB on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore workflows.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

## Compatibility changes

### Behavior changes

* When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) with [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) enabled, primary key or unique index conflicts are now automatically resolved by removing all conflicting rows (none of the conflicting rows are preserved), instead of causing the task to fail. The number of conflicted rows appears in the `Result_Message` column of `SHOW IMPORT JOBS` output, and detailed conflict information is stored in cloud storage. For more information, see [`IMPORT INTO` conflict resolution](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#conflict-resolution).

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|

> |  |  |  |

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
| `tidb_advancer_check_point_lag_limit`       | Newly added  | Controls the maximum allowed checkpoint lag for a log backup task. If a task's checkpoint lag exceeds this limit, TiDB Advancer pauses the task. |
| `tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio`    | Newly added  | Controls when TiDB triggers the circuit breaker. Setting a value of `0` (default) disables the circuit breaker. Setting a value between `0.01` and `1` enables it, causing the circuit breaker to trigger when the error rate of specific requests sent to PD reaches or exceeds the threshold. |
```

|  |  |  |
|  |  |  |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |
|  |  |  |  |

### System tables

### Other changes

## Improvements

+ TiDB

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

>     - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
- improve the error message for import into when there are encoding errors [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63763) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
- change the parser for parquet format to get better performance [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62906) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
```

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

+ PD

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

>         - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
        - Reduced the memory usage when log backup enabled and many regions in cluster. [#18719](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18719) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - Now, azure blob storage authorizates by the client default when there isn't user provided key. [#18206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18206) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
        - pitr support to repair the foreign key created during log restore [#61642](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61642) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - introduce the parameter --sys-check-collation to support restore privileges tables from v6.5 to v7.5 [#64667](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64667) @[Leavrth](https://github.com/Leavrth)
        - We have modified the blockfile validation system. We used to prevent any restore that overlap with existing pitr, now the restrict is loosen. [#64908](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64908) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Update azure sdk to support managed identity for TiKV. [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR)
        - Fixed a bug that may cause `restore point` from checkpoint panic when the log backup was mixed with a full backup. [#58685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58685) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)
```

    - 提升了 `expression.Contains` 函数的性能 [#61373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61373) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 修复当计划缓存开启时，关联子查询可能产生非预期的全表扫描的问题 [#64645](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64645) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)
    - 修复系统表会污染表健康度监控的问题 [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176), [#64080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64080) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
    - 修复 auto-anlyze 关闭之后 `mysql.tidb_ddl_notifier` 不能被清理的问题 [#64038](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64038) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
    - 修复了在 `newLocalColumnPool` 中重复分配 column 的问题 [#63809](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63809) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - 减少无效的 sync load 加载失败警告日志 [#63880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63880) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
    - 修复手动 kill 正在执行事务的 connection 可能导致 tidb 发生 panic 异常退出的问题 [#63956](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63956) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - 修复缓存表在走 TiFlash 副本读取时可能出现的 goroutine 和内存泄漏问题 [#63329](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63329) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - fix the problem that foreign key is not updated after modify column [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59705) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 15 notes-->

Author: ```suggestion
    - fix the problem that foreign key is not updated after modify column [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59705) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 16 notes-->
```

    - fix incorrect check to determing whether to load table info for tables contain foreign key [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60444) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)
    - fix incorrect auto ID setting after cross-database rename table [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64561) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix incorrect handling meta key for older version of TiDB [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64323) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - fix ligtning doesnt' report error for schema files without trailing semicolon [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63414) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - fix the dead loop when reading files during IMPORT INTO global sort [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61177) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - fix the panic when processing generated columns for IMPORT INTO [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - (dup): release-9.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the potential OOM issue when querying `information_schema.tables` by improving memory usage monitoring when quering system tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - 修复在一个语句中有多个 `AS OF TIMESTAMP` 表达式时可能误报错的问题 [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65090) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - (dup): release-9.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the potential OOM issue when querying `information_schema.tables` by improving memory usage monitoring when quering system tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - fix incorrect check to determing whether to load table info for tables contain foreign key [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60444) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)
    - fix incorrect auto ID setting after cross-database rename table [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64561) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix incorrect handling meta key for older version of TiDB [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64323) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - fix ligtning doesnt' report error for schema files without trailing semicolon [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63414) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - fix the dead loop when reading files during IMPORT INTO global sort [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61177) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - fix the panic when processing generated columns for IMPORT INTO [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

>     - 修复在一个语句中有多个 `AS OF TIMESTAMP` 表达式时可能误报错的问题 [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65090) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that foreign key is not updated after running `ALTER TABLE child CHANGE COLUMN` to modify a column [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59705) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 16 notes-->
    - fix error decoding `RENAME TABLE` job arg from older version TiDB [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64413) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix missing rebase auto increment not executed if BR restore failed [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64761) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix OOM issue when querying `information_schema` tables [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - fix the problem that TiDB node may stuck during upgrade [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64539) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix unexpected successful admin check when there are no index record [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63698) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - fix data-index inconsistency when chaning collation with modify column [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61668) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - fix incorrect initialization for foreign key related fields when copying table info [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61668) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - fix the problem that embedded analyze may be not triggered for multi schema change [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65040) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix the problem that the DXF task was not cancelled after canceling the add index job [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64129) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - fix incorrect check to determing whether to load table info for tables contain foreign key [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60444) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)
    - fix incorrect auto ID setting after cross-database rename table [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64561) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - fix incorrect handling meta key for older version of TiDB [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64323) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - fix ligtning doesnt' report error for schema files without trailing semicolon [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63414) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - fix the dead loop when reading files during IMPORT INTO global sort [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61177) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
    - fix the panic when processing generated columns for IMPORT INTO [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - 修复在一个语句中有多个 `AS OF TIMESTAMP` 表达式时可能误报错的问题 [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65090) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
```

    TiDB v8.5.5 optimizes these scenarios. Test results show that in an extreme environment with 10 million tables (including 200,000 tables with foreign keys), the logical DDL processing performance consistently maintains 100 QPS. Compared to previous versions, the performance is improved by 25 times, significantly enhancing the operational responsiveness of ultra-large-scale clusters.

* Support pushing index lookups down to TiKV to improve query performance [#62575](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62575) @[lcwangchao](https://github.com/lcwangchao)

    Starting from v8.5.5, TiDB supports using optimizer hints to push the `IndexLookUp` operator down to TiKV nodes. This reduces the number of remote procedure calls (RPCs) and can improve query performance. The actual performance improvement varies depending on the specific workload and requires testing for verification.

>     You can use the [`INDEX_LOOKUP_PUSHDOWN(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/optimizer-hints#index_lookup_pushdownt1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name--new-in-v855) hint to explicitly instruct the optimizer to push index lookups down to TiKV for a specific table. It is recommended to combine this hint with the table's AFFINITY attribute. For example, set `AFFINITY="table"` for regular tables and `AFFINITY="partition"` for partitioned tables.

Author: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.5.5, TiDB supports using [optimizer hints](/optimizer-hints.md) to push the `IndexLookUp` operator down to TiKV nodes. This reduces the number of remote procedure calls (RPCs) and can improve query performance. The actual performance improvement varies depending on the specific workload and requires testing for verification.

    To explicitly instruct the optimizer to push index lookups down to TiKV for a specific table, you can use the [`INDEX_LOOKUP_PUSHDOWN(t1_name, idx1_name [, idx2_name ...])`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/optimizer-hints#index_lookup_pushdownt1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name--new-in-v855) hint. It is recommended to combine this hint with the table's AFFINITY attribute. For example, set `AFFINITY="table"` for regular tables and `AFFINITY="partition"` for partitioned tables.
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-config-evict-slow-store-scheduler).

### Availability

* Introduce the client circuit breaker pattern for PD [#8678](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8678) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--2051-->

    To protect the PD leader from overloading during retry storms or similar feedback loops, TiDB now implements a circuit breaker pattern. When the error rate reaches a predefined threshold, the circuit breaker limits incoming traffic to allow the system to recover and stabilize. You can use the `tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio` system variable to control the circuit breaker.

    For more information, see [Documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio-new-in-v855).

### SQL

> * Support dynamically modifying the concurrency and throughput of distributed `ADD INDEX` jobs [#62120](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/pull/62120) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh) **tw@qiancai** <!--2326-->

Author: ```suggestion
* Support dynamically modifying the concurrency and throughput of distributed `ADD INDEX` jobs [#64947](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64947) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh) **tw@qiancai** <!--2326-->
```

    For more information, see [documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/br-pitr-manual#compatibility-between-ongoing-log-backup-and-snapshot-restore).

* Support table-level restores from log backups [#57613](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57613) @[Tristan1900](https://github.com/Tristan1900) **tw@lilin90** <!--2005-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, you can perform point-in-time recovery (PITR) for individual tables from log backups by using filters. Restoring specific tables, rather than the entire cluster, to a target point in time provides more flexible and less disruptive recovery options.

    For more information, see [documentation](/br/br-pitr-manual.md#restore-data-using-filters).

### Observability

* Add storage engine identifiers to statement summary tables and slow query logs [#61736](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61736) @[henrybw](https://github.com/henrybw) **tw@Oreoxmt**<!--2034 -->

>     When both TiKV and TiFlash are deployed in a cluster, users often need to filter SQL statements by storage engine during database diagnostics and performance optimization. For example, if TiFlash is under high load, users might need to identify SQL statements running on TiFlash to locate potential causes. To meet this need, starting from v9.0.0, TiDB adds storage engine identifier fields to statement summary tables and slow query logs.

Author: ```suggestion
    When both TiKV and TiFlash are deployed in a cluster, users often need to filter SQL statements by storage engine during database diagnostics and performance optimization. For example, if TiFlash is under high load, users might need to identify SQL statements running on TiFlash to locate potential causes. To meet this need, starting from v8.5.5, TiDB adds storage engine identifier fields to statement summary tables and slow query logs.
```

### Security

* Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, BR supports Azure Managed Identity (MI) for authenticating to Azure Blob Storage, eliminating the need for static SAS tokens. This enables secure, keyless, and ephemeral authentication that follows Azure security best practices.

    With this feature, BR and the embedded BR worker in TiKV can acquire access tokens directly from Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS), reducing credential leakage risk and simplifying credential rotation for self-managed and cloud deployments on Azure.

    This enhancement is particularly useful for enterprise customers running TiDB on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore operations.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

## Compatibility changes

### Behavior changes

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |

> |--------|------------------------------|------|

Author: ```suggestion
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| [`tidb_analyze_column_options`](/system-variables.md#tidb_analyze_column_options-new-in-v830) | Modified | Changes the default value from `PREDICATE` to `ALL` to improve the completeness of statistics. |
```

## Bug fixes

+ TiDB <!--tw@lilin90: the following 15 notes-->

    - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to read the latest value of the tidb_mem_quota_binding_cache variable for initialization during the startup process [#65381](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65381) @[qw4990](https://github.com/qw4990)
    - Fix the issue that candidate items are incorrectly skipped in extractBestCNFItemRanges, leading to inaccurate query range calculation [#62547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62547) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `plan replayer` cannot load the binding [#64811](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64811) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `PointGet` fails to reuse chunks even when memory is sufficient, leading to unnecessary memory allocations [#63920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63920) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `LogicalProjection.DeriveStats` consumes excessive memory during allocation [#63810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63810) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to dump the plan replayer when a query panics [#64835](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64835) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

Reviewer 6: - Fix an issue where, in certain cases, the related attributes in the SHOW CREATE TABLE output for TTL tables were in an incorrect order [#64876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64876) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
- Fix an issue where the execution summary information was empty when a TTL job timed out [#61509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61509) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

    - change the parser for parquet format to get better performance [#62906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - 将 `tidb_analyze_column_options` 的默认值设置为 `all` [#64992](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64992) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
    - 优化 IndexHashJoin 的执行方式，在部分 JOIN 场景下采用增量处理以避免一次性加载大量数据，显著降低内存占用并提升执行性能 [#63303](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63303) @[ChangRui-Ryan](https://github.com/ChangRui-Ryan)
    - (dup): release-9.0.0.md > Improvements> TiDB - Optimize the CPU usage of internal SQL statements in the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) [#59344](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59344) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

+ TiKV <!--tw@lilin90: 3 notes-->

    - Introduces CPU-aware scaling for the unified read pool to avoid CPU starvation under hot read workloads. [#18464](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18464) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - Adds network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders on TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions. [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

>     - Optimizes hibernate behavior by allowing leaders to enter hibernation once a majority vote is reached, without waiting for down non-voter peers. [#19070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19070) @[jiadebin](https://github.com/jiadebin)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Introduce CPU-aware scaling for the unified read pool to avoid CPU starvation under hot read workloads [#18464](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18464) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - Add network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders on TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Optimize hibernate behavior by allowing leaders to enter hibernation once a majority vote is reached, without waiting for down non-voter peers [#19070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19070) @[jiadebin](https://github.com/jiadebin)
```

>     - Add network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders on TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Add network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders to TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
```

    - Fix the issue that an error occurs when decoding the `RENAME TABLE` job arg from an earlier version [#64413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64413) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix missing rebase auto increment not executed if BR restore failed [#64761](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64761) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the OOM issue when querying `information_schema` tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the isse that the TiDB node might get stuck during upgrade [#64539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64539) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that admin check does not report errors when there are no index records [#63698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63698) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that data indexes are inconsistent when changing the collation with modify column [#61668](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61668) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - fix incorrect initialization for foreign key related fields when copying table info [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61668) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - fix incorrect initialization for foreign key related fields when copying table info [#60444](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60444) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

    - Fix the issue that embedded ANALYZE might not be triggered for multiple schema changes [#65040](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65040) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that the DXF (Distributed eXecution Framework) task is not cancelled after canceling the `ADD INDEX` job [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64129) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - fix incorrect check to determing whether to load table info for tables contain foreign key [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60444) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that embedded ANALYZE might not be triggered for multiple schema changes [#65040](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65040) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that the DXF (Distributed eXecution Framework) task is not cancelled after canceling the `ADD INDEX` job [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64129) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - fix incorrect check to determing whether to load table info for tables contain foreign key [#60044]([infoschema v2 loads all the tables when starts · Issue #60044 · pingcap/tidb](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60044)) @[JQWong7]([JQWong7 - Overview](https://github.com/JQWong7))
   - fix incorrect initialization for foreign key related fields when copying table info [#60044]([infoschema v2 loads all the tables when starts · Issue #60044 · pingcap/tidb](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60044)) @[JQWong7]([JQWong7 - Overview](https://github.com/JQWong7))
```

+ PD <!--tw@qiancai: 7 notes-->

    - 修复节点在上线过程中可能无法下线的问题 [#8997](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8997) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - 修复因大量 leader transfer 可能导致 region size 跳变的问题 [#10014](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/10014) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - 修复调度过程中可能导致 PD panic 的问题 [#9951](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9951) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - 修复导入过程中数据不均衡的问题 [#9088](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9088) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
    - 修复开启 PD follower handle 后遇到错误时，无法将请求回退到 leader 处理的问题 [#64933](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64933) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - 修复微服务请求没有正常转发的问题 [#9825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9825) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) [#9825](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9825) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024)
    - 修复微服务 TLS 配置问题 [#9367](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9367) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

+ TiFlash <!--tw@hfxsd: 3 notes-->

>     - 修复在 BR restore 的过程中，TiFlash 可能 panic 的问题 [#10606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/10606) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash might panic when BR is restoring data [#10606](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/10606) @[CalvinNeo](https://github.com/CalvinNeo)
```

>     - 修复在 BR restore 的过程中，TiFlash 不能充分利用超过 16 核 CPU 进行数据恢复的问题 [#10605](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/10605) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiFlash cannot fully utilize more than 16 CPU cores when BR is restoring data [#10605](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/10605) @[JaySon-Huang](https://github.com/JaySon-Huang)
```

        - Fix the issue that `restore point` from a checkpoint might panic when log backup data is mixed with a full backup [#58685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58685) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen)

    + TiCDC <!--tw@qiancai: 6 notes-->

        - Fix the issue that may cause DML loss while failing to close the writer of the storage sink [#12436](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12436) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the issue that causes the changefeed to fail when truncating partition tables [#12430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12430) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the incorrect execution order of split DDLs generated from a multi-table DDL statement [#12449](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12449) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)
        - Upgrade aws-sdk-go-v2 dependency to fix glue schema registry[#12424](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12424) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the issue that may cause the sink memory quota not to be released [#18169](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18169) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

>         - Fix the issue that may cause the sink memory quota not to be released [#18915](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18915) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)

Author: ```suggestion
        - Fix the issue that data might be lost during replication to object storage (Storage Sink) because Writer close errors are not correctly captured [#12436](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12436) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the issue that replicating a `TRUNCATE` operation on a partitioned table might cause changefeed failures [#12430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12430) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the issue that downstream execution order might be incorrect when replicating multi-table `RENAME` DDL statements [#12449](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12449) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)
        - Fix the issue that connection errors might occur when using Glue Schema Registry by upgrading the `aws-sdk-go-v2` dependency version [#12424](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12424) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the issue that changefeed tasks might get stuck because the TiKV CDC component fails to release memory quotas correctly after a restart [#18169](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18169) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
        - Fix the issue that gRPC connections might be unexpectedly closed due to being misjudged as idle when incremental scan tasks accumulate in TiKV CDC [#18915](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18915) @[asddongmen](https://github.com/asddongmen)
```

    - Adds network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders on TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions. [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Optimizes hibernate behavior by allowing leaders to enter hibernation once a majority vote is reached, without waiting for down non-voter peers. [#19070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19070) @[jiadebin](https://github.com/jiadebin)
    - (dup): release-9.0.0.md > Improvements> TiKV - Throttle BR log restore requests when TiKV memory usage is high to prevent TiKV OOM [#18124](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18124) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

+ PD <!--tw@Oreoxmt: 4 notes-->

    - 优化了高基数指标 [#9357](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9357) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - 优化了时间戳推进和选举逻辑 [#9981](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9981) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - 支持批量设置 TiKV 的 store limit [#9970](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9970) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)

>     - `pd_cluster_status` 增加了 store 标签 [#9855](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9855) @[SerjKol80](https://github.com/SerjKol80)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Optimize metrics with high cardinality [#9357](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9357) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
    - Optimize the logic for timestamp advancement and leader election [#9981](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9981) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Support batch configuration of TiKV store limits [#9970](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9970) @[bufferflies](https://github.com/bufferflies)
    - Add the `store` label to the `pd_cluster_status` metric [#9855](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9855) @[SerjKol80](https://github.com/SerjKol80)
```

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |
| PD | [`schedule.max-affinity-merge-region-size`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-configuration-file#max-affinity-merge-region-size-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for automatically merging adjacent small Regions within the same [affinity group](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/table-affinity). The default value is `256`, in MiB. |
| PD  | [`schedule.affinity-schedule-limit`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-configuration-file#affinity-schedule-limit-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the number of [affinity](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/table-affinity) scheduling tasks that can be performed concurrently. The default value is `0`, which means that affinity scheduling is disabled by default. |

> | TiDB | [`performance.enable-async-batch-get`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#enable-async-batch-get-new-in-v855)  | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses asynchronous mode to execute the Batch Get operator. The default value is `true`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`performance.enable-async-batch-get`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#enable-async-batch-get-new-in-v855)  | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses asynchronous mode to execute the Batch Get operator. The default value is `true`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).level0-slowdown-writes-trigger`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#level0-slowdown-writes-trigger) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) only if its value is greater than the `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. |
| TiKV | [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) only if its value is greater than `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. |
```

    - Fix the issue that candidate items are incorrectly skipped in extractBestCNFItemRanges, leading to inaccurate query range calculation [#62547](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62547) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `plan replayer` cannot load the binding [#64811](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64811) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `PointGet` fails to reuse chunks even when memory is sufficient, leading to unnecessary memory allocations [#63920](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63920) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that `LogicalProjection.DeriveStats` consumes excessive memory during allocation [#63810](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63810) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB fails to dump the plan replayer when a query panics [#64835](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64835) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

>     - Fix the issue that the `SHOW CREATE TABLE` statement might display attributes in an incorrect order for TTL tables in certain cases [#64876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64876) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the attribute order in the `SHOW CREATE TABLE` output for TTL tables is displayed incorrectly in specific scenarios [#64876](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64876) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
```

    - Fix the issue that the execution summary information for a TTL job is empty when the job times out [#61509](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61509) @[YangKeao](https://github.com/YangKeao)
    - Fix the issue that correlated subqueries might trigger unexpected full table scans when the Plan Cache is enabled [#64645](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64645) @[winoros](https://github.com/winoros)

>     - Fix the issue that system tables cause incorrect calculation of table health metrics [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176), [#64080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64080) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that system tables cause incorrect table health monitoring results [#57176](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/57176), [#64080](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64080) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
```

    - Fix the issue that the `mysql.tidb_ddl_notifier` table cannot be cleaned up when automatic statistics updates are disabled (`tidb_enable_auto_analyze = OFF`) [#64038](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64038) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
    - Fix the issue that columns are redundantly allocated in `newLocalColumnPool` [#63809](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63809) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)
    - Fix the issue that there are redundant `syncload` failure warning logs [#63880](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63880) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
    - Fix the issue that TiDB might panic and exit unexpectedly when a connection that runs an active transaction is manually terminated [#63956](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63956) @[wshwsh12](https://github.com/wshwsh12)
    - Fix the issue that goroutine and memory leaks might occur when a cached table reads from a TiFlash replica [#63329](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63329) @[xzhangxian1008](https://github.com/xzhangxian1008)

>     - Fix the issue that foreign key is not updated after running `ALTER TABLE child CHANGE COLUMN` to modify a column [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59705) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 16 notes-->

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the foreign key is not updated after executing `ALTER TABLE child CHANGE COLUMN` to modify a column [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/59705) @[fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678) <!--tw@hfxsd: the following 16 notes-->
```

    - Fix the issue that an error occurs when decoding the `RENAME TABLE` job arg from an earlier version [#64413](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64413) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that the auto increment is not rebased if BR restore fails [#60804](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60804) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the OOM issue when querying `information_schema` tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the isse that the TiDB node might get stuck during upgrade [#64539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64539) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)

>     - Fix the issue that admin check does not report errors when there are no index records [#63698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63698) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that admin check does not report errors when index records are missing [#63698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63698) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

    - Fix the issue that data indexes are inconsistent when changing the collation with modify column [#61668](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61668) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that embedded ANALYZE might not be triggered for multiple schema changes [#65040](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65040) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that the DXF (Distributed eXecution Framework) task is not cancelled after canceling the `ADD INDEX` job [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64129) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

>     - Fix the issue that the check is incorrect when determining whether to load the table information for tables that contain foreign keys [#60044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60044) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the validation logic is incorrect when determining whether to load the table information for tables that contain foreign keys [#60044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60044) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)
```

>     - Fix the issue that initialization for foreign keys related fields is incorrect when copying the table information [#60044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60044) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that initialization for foreign key related fields is incorrect when copying table information [#60044](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60044) @[JQWong7](https://github.com/JQWong7)
```

    - Fix the issue that the auto ID setting is incorrect after renaming a table cross databases [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64561) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)

>     - Fix the high CPU usage issue caused by incorrect handling of meta keys [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64323) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that incorrect handling of meta keys leads to high CPU usage [#64323](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64323) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
```

>     - Fix the issue that TiDB Ligtning does not report an error when a schema file lacks a trailing semicolon [#63414](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63414) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that TiDB Lightning fails to report an error when a schema file lacks a trailing semicolon [#63414](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63414) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
```

    - Fix the issue that an infinite loop occurs when reading files during an `IMPORT INTO` operation with Global Sort enabled [#61177](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61177) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)

>     - Fix the panic issue when processing generated columns for `IMPORT INTO` [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that a panic occurs when handling generated columns during `IMPORT INTO` [#64657](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
```

+ TiFlash

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflash/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

+ Tools

    + Backup & Restore (BR)

        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
        - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

    + TiCDC

        - Fix the issue that may cause DML loss while failing to close the writer of the storage sink [#12436](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12436) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the issue that causes the changefeed to fail when truncating partition tables [#12430](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12430) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)
        - Fix the incorrect execution order of split DDLs generated from a multi-table DDL statement [#12449](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12449) @[wlwilliamx](https://github.com/wlwilliamx)

>         - Add more verification for the changefeed config when creating changefeed.  [#12253](https://github.com/pingcap/tiflow/issues/12253) @[wk989898](https://github.com/wk989898)

Author: ```suggestion
```

summary: Learn about the features, compatibility changes, improvements, and bug fixes in TiDB 8.5.5.
---

# TiDB 8.5.5 Release Notes

Release date: xx xx, 2026

TiDB version: 8.5.5

Quick access: [Quick start](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/quick-start-with-tidb) | [Production deployment](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/production-deployment-using-tiup)

## Features

### Performance

* 大幅提升特定有损 DDL 操作的执行效率，例如 `BIGINT → INT`、`CHAR(120) → VARCHAR(60)`。在未发生数据截断的前提下，执行耗时可从数小时缩短至分钟级、秒级甚至毫秒级，性能提升可达到数十倍至数十万倍。  [#63366](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63366)  [@wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016), [@tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta), [@fzzf678](https://github.com/fzzf678)**tw@qiancai** <!--2292-->

    优化策略包括：

    - 在严格 SQL 模式下，预先检查类型转换过程中是否存在数据截断风险；
    - 若不存在数据截断风险，则仅更新元数据，尽量避免索引重建；
    - 如需重建索引，则采用更高效的 Ingest 流程，大幅提升索引重建性能。

    性能提升示例（基于 100 GiB 表的基准测试）：

    | 场景 | 操作类型 | 优化前 | 优化后 | 性能提升 |
    |------|----------|--------|--------|----------|
    | 无索引列 | `BIGINT → INT` | 2 小时 34 分 | 1 分 5 秒 | 142× |
    | 有索引列 | `BIGINT → INT` | 6 小时 25 分 | 0.05 秒 | 460,000× |
    | 有索引列 | `CHAR(120) → VARCHAR(60)` | 7 小时 16 分 | 12 分 56 秒 | 34× |

>     注：以上数据基于 DDL 执行过程中未发生数据截断的前提。以上优化对于有 TiFlash 副本的表，以及 sign <--> unsign 数据类型修改的场景不会生效。

Author: ```suggestion
    注：以上数据基于 DDL 执行过程中未发生数据截断的前提。以上优化对于有 TiFlash 副本的表，以及符号类型转换场景（如 `Signed` ↔ `Unsigned`）场景不会生效。
```

### MySQL compatibility

### System variables

| Variable name | Change type | Description |
|--------|------------------------------|------|
| `tidb_advancer_check_point_lag_limit`       | Newly added  | Controls the maximum allowed checkpoint lag for a log backup task. If a task's checkpoint lag exceeds this limit, TiDB Advancer pauses the task. |
| `tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio`    | Newly added  | Controls when TiDB triggers the circuit breaker. Setting a value of `0` (default) disables the circuit breaker. Setting a value between `0.01` and `1` enables it, causing the circuit breaker to trigger when the error rate of specific requests sent to PD reaches or exceeds the threshold. |

> |  |  |  |

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
| `tidb_index_lookup_pushdown_policy` | Newly added | Controls whether and when TiDB pushes the `IndexLookUp` operator down to TiKV. |
```

> For newly created TiDB v8.5.4 clusters (excluding clusters upgraded from versions earlier than v8.5.3), you can smoothly upgrade to v8.5.5. Most changes in v8.5.5 are safe for routine upgrades, but this release also includes several behavior changes, MySQL compatibility adjustments, system variable updates, configuration parameter updates, and system table changes. Before upgrading, make sure to carefully review this section.

Author: ```suggestion
For TiDB clusters newly deployed in v8.5.4 (that is, not upgraded from versions earlier than v8.5.3), you can smoothly upgrade to v8.5.5. Most changes in v8.5.5 are safe for routine upgrades, but this release also includes several behavior changes, MySQL compatibility adjustments, system variable updates, configuration parameter updates, and system table changes. Before upgrading, make sure to carefully review this section.
```

- fix ligtning doesnt' report error for schema files without trailing semicolon [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63414) @[GMHDBJD](https://github.com/GMHDBJD)
- fix the dead loop when reading files during IMPORT INTO global sort [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61177) @[CbcWestwolf](https://github.com/CbcWestwolf)
- fix the panic when processing generated columns for IMPORT INTO [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64657) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - note [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})
    - (dup): release-9.0.0.md > Bug fixes> TiDB - Fix the potential OOM issue when querying `information_schema.tables` by improving memory usage monitoring when quering system tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

+ TiKV

    - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

>     - note [#issue](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/${issue-id}) @[Contributor GitHub ID](https://github.com/${github-id})

Reviewer 9: ```suggestion
    - Fix the bug that analyze scan kv operation metric is always 0 [#19206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19206) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Introduces CPU-aware scaling for the unified read pool to avoid CPU starvation under hot read workloads. [#18464](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18464) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - Fix the bug that pd heartbeat may report wrong region size/keys statistics data after leader change. [#19180](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19180) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fixes unsafe recovery getting stuck by removing tombstoned TiFlash learners from the unsafe recovery demotion list. [#18458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18458) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)
    - Adds network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders on TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions. [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Fixes an issue where snapshots could be canceled indefinitely under continuous writes, blocking replica recovery. [#18872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18872) @[exit-code-1](https://github.com/exit-code-1)
    - Fixes compaction slowdowns caused by increased flow-control thresholds. [#18708](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18708) @[hhwyt](https://github.com/hhwyt)
    - Fix the bug that pd heartbeat may report wrong region size/keys statistics data after leader change. [#19180](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19180) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Optimizes hibernate behavior by allowing leaders to enter hibernation once a majority vote is reached, without waiting for down non-voter peers. [#19070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19070) @[jiadebin](https://github.com/jiadebin)
    - Fixes a corner case where Raft peers could enter hibernation prematurely, causing them to remain busy and block leader transfers after TiKV restart. [#19203](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19203) @[LykxSassinator](https://github.com/LykxSassinator)
```

    - Fix the issue that an error might be incorrectly reported when a single SQL statement contains multiple `AS OF TIMESTAMP` expressions [#65090](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65090) @[you06](https://github.com/you06)
    - Fix the potential OOM issue when querying `information_schema.tables` by improving memory usage monitoring when querying system tables [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

+ TiKV

    - Fix the issue that the `KV Cursor Operations` metric for analyze requests is always `0` [#19206](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19206) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that Region heartbeats might report incorrect Region size or key statistics to PD after a leader change [#19180](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19180) @[glorv](https://github.com/glorv)
    - Fix the issue that unsafe recovery gets stuck by removing tombstone TiFlash learners from the unsafe recovery demotion list [#18458](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18458) @[v01dstar](https://github.com/v01dstar)

>     - Fix the issue that snapshots might be canceled indefinitely during continuous writes, which blocks replica recovery [#18872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18872) @[exit-code-1](https://github.com/exit-code-1)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that snapshots might be repeatedly canceled during continuous writes, which blocks replica recovery [#18872](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18872) @[exit-code-1](https://github.com/exit-code-1)
```

    The optimization strategies are as follows:

    - In strict SQL mode, TiDB pre-checks for potential data truncation risks during type conversion.
    - If no data truncation risk is detected, TiDB updates only the metadata and avoids index rebuilding whenever possible.
    - If index rebuilding is required, TiDB uses a more efficient ingest process to significantly improve index rebuild performance.

    The following table shows example performance improvements based on benchmark tests on a table with 114 GiB of data and 600 million rows. The test cluster consists of 3 TiDB nodes, 6 TiKV nodes, and 1 PD node. All nodes are configured with 16 CPU cores and 32 GiB of memory.

    | Scenario | Operation type | Before optimization | After optimization | Performance improvement |
    |----------|----------------|---------------------|--------------------|--------------------------|
     | Non-indexed column | `BIGINT → INT` | 2 hours 34 minutes | 1 minute 5 seconds | 142× faster |
    | Indexed column | `BIGINT → INT` | 6 hours 25 minutes | 0.05 seconds | 460,000× faster |

>      | Indexed column | `CHAR(120) → VARCHAR(60)` | 7 hours 16 minutes | 12 minutes 56 seconds | 34× faster |

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    | Scenario | Operation type | Before optimization | After optimization | Performance improvement |
    |----------|----------------|---------------------|--------------------|--------------------------|
    | Non-indexed column | `BIGINT → INT` | 2 hours 34 minutes | 1 minute 5 seconds | 142× faster |
    | Indexed column | `BIGINT → INT` | 6 hours 25 minutes | 0.05 seconds | 460,000× faster |
    | Indexed column | `CHAR(120) → VARCHAR(60)` | 7 hours 16 minutes | 12 minutes 56 seconds | 34× faster |
```

    For more information, see [documentation](/pd-control.md#scheduler-config-evict-slow-store-scheduler).

### Availability

* Introduce the client circuit breaker pattern for PD [#8678](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/8678) @[Tema](https://github.com/Tema) **tw@hfxsd** <!--2051-->

    To protect the PD leader from overloading during retry storms or similar feedback loops, TiDB now implements a circuit breaker pattern. When the error rate reaches a predefined threshold, the circuit breaker limits incoming traffic to allow the system to recover and stabilize. You can use the `tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio` system variable to control the circuit breaker.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](/system-variables.md#tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio-new-in-v855).

Author: ```suggestion
    For more information, see [Documentation](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio-new-in-v855).
```

    * `Storage_from_mpp`: `true` indicates that the SQL statement accesses TiFlash.

    This feature simplifies workflows in certain diagnostics and performance optimization scenarios and improves issue identification efficiency.

    For more information, see [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) and [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md).

### Security

* Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, BR supports Azure Managed Identity (MI) for authenticating to Azure Blob Storage, eliminating the need for static SAS tokens. This enables secure, keyless, and ephemeral authentication that follows Azure security best practices.

    With this feature, BR and the embedded BR worker in TiKV can acquire access tokens directly from Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS), reducing credential leakage risk and simplifying credential rotation for self-managed and cloud deployments on Azure.

>     This enhancement is particularly useful for enterprise customers running TiDB on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore operations.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    This feature applies to TiDB clusters running on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments, particularly in enterprise environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore operations.
```

| [`tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_cb_pd_metadata_error_rate_threshold_ratio-new-in-v855)    | Newly added  | Controls when TiDB triggers the circuit breaker. The default value is `0`, which means the circuit breaker is disabled. Setting a value between `0.01` and `1` enables it, causing the circuit breaker to trigger when the error rate of specific requests sent to PD reaches or exceeds the threshold. |
| [`tidb_index_lookup_pushdown_policy`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/system-variables#tidb_index_lookup_pushdown_policy-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls whether and when TiDB pushes the `IndexLookUp` operator down to TiKV. The default value is `hint-only`, which means TiDB pushes the `IndexLookUp` operator down to TiKV only when the [`INDEX_LOOKUP_PUSHDOWN`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/optimizer-hints#index_lookup_pushdownt1_name-idx1_name--idx2_name--new-in-v855) hint is explicitly specified in the SQL statement. |

### Configuration parameters

| Configuration file or component | Configuration parameter | Change type | Description |
| -------- | -------- | -------- | -------- |

> | TiDB | [`performance.enable-async-batch-get`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#enable-async-batch-get-new-in-v855)  | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses asynchronous mode to execute the Batch Get operator. The default value is `true`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiDB | [`performance.enable-async-batch-get`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tidb-configuration-file#enable-async-batch-get-new-in-v855)  | Newly added | Controls whether TiDB uses asynchronous mode to execute the Batch Get operator. The default value is `false`. |
```

| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).level0-slowdown-writes-trigger</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#level0-slowdown-writes-trigger) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) only if its value is greater than the `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. |

> | TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) only if its value is greater than `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\(defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\|raftcf\).level0-slowdown-writes-trigger</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#level0-slowdown-writes-trigger) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) only if its value is greater than the `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.\(defaultcf\|writecf\|lockcf\|raftcf\).soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) only if its value is greater than `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. |
```

| TiKV | [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).level0-slowdown-writes-trigger`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#level0-slowdown-writes-trigger) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) only if its value is greater than the `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. |

> | TiKV | [`rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) only if its value is greater than `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. |

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).level0-slowdown-writes-trigger</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#level0-slowdown-writes-trigger) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#l0-files-threshold) only if its value is greater than the `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.l0-files-threshold`. |
| TiKV | [<code>rocksdb.(defaultcf|writecf|lockcf|raftcf).soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit</code>](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit-1) | Modified | Starting from v8.5.5, when the flow control mechanism is enabled ([`storage.flow-control.enable`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#enable) is set to `true`), this configuration item is overridden by [`storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`](/tikv-configuration-file.md#soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit) only if its value is greater than `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. This behavior prevents weakening RocksDB’s compaction acceleration mechanism when you increase the flow control threshold. In v8.5.4 and earlier versions, when the flow control mechanism is enabled, this configuration item is directly overridden by `storage.flow-control.soft-pending-compaction-bytes-limit`. |
```

| TiKV | [`readpool.cpu-threshold`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#cpu-threshold-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Specifies the CPU utilization threshold for the unified read pool. The default value is `0.0`, which means that there is no limit on the CPU usage of the unified read pool. The size of the thread pool is determined solely by the busy thread scaling algorithm, which adjusts the size dynamically based on the number of threads handling current tasks. |
| TiKV | [`server.graceful-shutdown-timeout`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#graceful-shutdown-timeout-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the timeout duration for graceful shutdown of TiKV. The default value is `20s`. |

> | TiKV | [`server.inspect-network-interval`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#inspect-network-interval-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the interval at which the TiKV HealthChecker actively performs network detection to PD and other TiKV nodes. The default value is `100ms`. |

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
| TiKV | [`server.inspect-network-interval`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#inspect-network-interval-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the interval at which the TiKV HealthChecker actively performs network detection to PD and other TiKV nodes. The default value is `100ms`. |
| PD | [`schedule.max-affinity-merge-region-size`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-configuration-file#max-affinity-merge-region-size-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the threshold for automatically merging adjacent small Regions within the same [affinity group](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/table-affinity). The default value is `256`, in MiB. |
| PD  | [`schedule.affinity-schedule-limit`](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/pd-configuration-file#affinity-schedule-limit-new-in-v855) | Newly added | Controls the number of [affinity](https://docs.pingcap.com/tidb/v8.5/table-affinity) scheduling tasks that can be performed concurrently. The default value is `0`, which means that affinity scheduling is disabled by default. |
```

### System tables

* The system tables [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.TABLES`](/information-schema/information-schema-tables.md) and [`INFORMATION_SCHEMA.PARTITIONS`](/information-schema/information-schema-partitions.md) add a new column `TIDB_AFFINITY` to display the data affinity level.

### Other changes

* When performing PITR recovery on earlier TiDB versions (such as v8.5.4 or v8.1.2) using BR v8.5.5, the log recovery stage might fail and return errors.

    Full data backup and restore are not affected by this issue.

    It is recommended that you use a BR version that matches your target TiDB cluster version. For example, when performing PITR on a TiDB v8.5.4 cluster, use BR v8.5.4.

## Improvements

+ TiDB <!--tw@qiancai: 4 notes-->

    - Improve error messages for `IMPORT INTO` when encoding errors occur to help users identify issues more accurately [#63763](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63763) @[D3Hunter](https://github.com/D3Hunter)
    - Enhance the parsing mechanism for Parquet files to improve the import performance of Parquet-formatted data [#62906](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/62906) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)

>     - Set the default value of `tidb_analyze_column_options` to `all` to collect statistics for all columns by default [#64992](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64992) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
    - Change the default value of `tidb_analyze_column_options` to `ALL` to collect statistics for all columns by default [#64992](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64992) @[0xPoe](https://github.com/0xPoe)
```

    - Improve the performance of the `expression.Contains` function [#61373](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61373) @[hawkingrei](https://github.com/hawkingrei)

+ TiKV

    - Introduce CPU-aware scaling for the unified read pool to avoid CPU starvation under hot read workloads [#18464](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18464) @[mittalrishabh](https://github.com/mittalrishabh)
    - Add network latency awareness to slow score to avoid scheduling leaders to TiKV nodes with unstable network conditions [#18797](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18797) @[okJiang](https://github.com/okJiang)
    - Optimize hibernate Region behavior by allowing leaders to enter the hibernation state immediately after receiving a majority of votes, without waiting for offline non-voter peers [#19070](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19070) @[jiadebin](https://github.com/jiadebin)
    - Throttle BR log restore requests when TiKV memory usage is high to prevent TiKV OOM [#18124](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/18124) @[3pointer](https://github.com/3pointer)

+ PD

>     - Optimize metrics with high cardinality [#9357](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9357) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Optimize metrics with high cardinality to reduce PD memory usage and relieve pressure on the monitoring system [#9357](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9357) @[rleungx](https://github.com/rleungx)
```

    - Fix the issue that the auto-increment ID fails to be rebased when BR restore fails [#60804](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/60804) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that querying `information_schema` tables leads to OOM [#58985](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58985) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the TiDB node might get stuck during upgrade [#64539](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64539) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)
    - Fix the issue that admin check does not report errors when index records are missing [#63698](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/63698) @[wjhuang2016](https://github.com/wjhuang2016)
    - Fix the issue that modifying the collation via `MODIFY COLUMN` results in data index inconsistency [#61668](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/61668) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
    - Fix the issue that the embedded `ANALYZE` feature in DDL might not be triggered when performing multiple schema changes [#65040](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/65040) @[joechenrh](https://github.com/joechenrh)

>     - Fix the issue that the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) task is not cancelled after canceling the `ADD INDEX` job [#issue](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64129) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)

Author: ```suggestion
    - Fix the issue that the Distributed eXecution Framework (DXF) task is not cancelled after canceling the `ADD INDEX` job [#64129](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/64129) @[tangenta](https://github.com/tangenta)
```

* 表级和分区级亲和性属性 AFFINITY [#9764](https://github.com/tikv/pd/issues/9764) @[lhy1024](https://github.com/lhy1024) **tw@qiancai** <!--2317-->

    为表或者分区表新增亲和性属性，设置亲和性属性后，PD会将表或分区的Region归为相同的一个亲和性分组中，这些Region的Leader、Voter 会被优先调度到指定TiKV Store上。有AFFNITY属性的表和分区在查询时，由于索引、表数据的Region都在一个TiKV Store上，因此优化器可结合 hint INDEX_LOOKUP_PUSHDOWN 指定将对应索引查询下推，减少跨节点分散查询带来的延迟，根据测试数据对比性能可约提升20%。

    更多信息，请参考[table-affinity.md](table-affinity.md)。

* Point-in-time recovery (PITR) supports recovery from compacted log backups for faster restores [#56522](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/56522) @[YuJuncen](https://github.com/YuJuncen) **tw@lilin90** <!--2001-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, the log backup compaction feature provides offline compaction capabilities, converting unstructured log backup data into structured SST files. This results in the following improvements:

    - **Improved recovery performance** - SST files can be more quickly imported into the cluster.
    - **Reduced storage space consumption** - redundant data is removed during compaction.

>     - **Reduced impact on applications** - RPOs can be amintained with less frequent full snapshot-based backups.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    - **Improved recovery performance**: SST files can be more quickly imported into the cluster.
    - **Reduced storage space consumption**: redundant data is removed during compaction.
    - **Reduced impact on applications**: RPOs (Recovery Point Objective) can be maintained with less frequent full snapshot-based backups.
```

   在 v8.5.5 版本之前，当集群开启了分布式执行框架 [tidb_enable_dist_task](/system-variables/#tidb_enable_dist_task-从-v710-版本开始引入) ，在 ADD Index 任务执行期间，是无法修改该任务的 `THREAD`， `BATCH_SIZE`，`MAX_WRITE_SPEED`  参数。需要取消该 DDL 任务，重新设置参数后再提交，效率较低。支持该功能后，用户可以根据业务负载和对 ADD Index 的性能要求，在线灵活调整这些参数。

    更多信息，请参考[ADMIN ALTER DDL JOBS](/sql-statement-admin-alter-ddl/#admin-alter-ddl-jobs)。

### DB operations

* TiKV 支持优雅关闭 (graceful shutdown) [#17221](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/17221) @[hujiatao0](https://github.com/hujiatao0) **tw@qiancai** <!--2297-->

    在关闭 TiKV 服务器时，TiKV 会尽量将其上的 leader 副本转移到其他 TiKV 节点，然后再关闭。该等待期默认为 20 秒，可通过 [`server.graceful-shutdown-timeout`](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#graceful-shutdown-timeout-从-v855-版本开始引入) 配置项进行调整。若达到该超时时间后仍有 leader 未完成转移，TiKV 将跳过剩余 leader 的转移，直接进入关闭流程。

    更多信息，请参考[用户文档](https://docs.pingcap.com/zh/tidb/v8.5/tikv-configuration-file#graceful-shutdown-timeout-从-v855-版本开始引入)。

* Improve the compatibility between ongoing log backup and snapshot restore [#58685](https://github.com/pingcap/tidb/issues/58685) @[BornChanger](https://github.com/BornChanger) **tw@lilin90** <!--2000-->

>     Starting from v8.5.5, log backups can continue to run when performing a snapshot restore (when prerequisite conditions are met). This enables ongoing log backups to proceed without having to stop them during the restore procedure. The newly restored data will also be recorded in the ongoing log backup.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
    Starting from v8.5.5, when a log backup task is running, you can still perform a snapshot restore as long as prerequisite conditions are met. This enables ongoing log backups to proceed without having to stop them during the restore process, and the restored data is properly recorded by the ongoing log backup.
```

Reviewer 7: @benmeadowcroft PTAL

    For more information, see [Statement Summary Tables](/statement-summary-tables.md) and [Identify Slow Queries](/identify-slow-queries.md).

### Security

* Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, TiDB Backup & Restore supports Azure Managed Identity (MI) for authenticating to Azure Blob Storage, eliminating the need for static SAS tokens. This enables secure, keyless, and ephemeral authentication aligned with Azure best practices.

    With this feature, BR and the embedded BR worker in TiKV can acquire access tokens directly from Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS), reducing credential leakage risk and simplifying credential rotation for self-managed and cloud deployments on Azure.

    This enhancement is particularly useful for enterprise customers running TiDB on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore workflows.

>     For more information, see [Documentation](link).

Author: ```suggestion
* Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, BR supports Azure Managed Identity (MI) for authenticating to Azure Blob Storage, eliminating the need for static SAS tokens. This enables secure, keyless, and ephemeral authentication aligned with Azure best practices.

    With this feature, BR and the embedded BR worker in TiKV can acquire access tokens directly from Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS), reducing credential leakage risk and simplifying credential rotation for self-managed and cloud deployments on Azure.

    This enhancement is particularly useful for enterprise customers running TiDB on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore workflows.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).
```

### Security

* Enable Azure Managed Identity (MI) authentication for Backup & Restore (BR) to Azure Blob Storage [#19006](https://github.com/tikv/tikv/issues/19006) @[RidRisR](https://github.com/RidRisR) **tw@qiancai** <!--2308-->

    Starting from v8.5.5, BR supports Azure Managed Identity (MI) for authenticating to Azure Blob Storage, eliminating the need for static SAS tokens. This enables secure, keyless, and ephemeral authentication that follows Azure security best practices.

    With this feature, BR and the embedded BR worker in TiKV can acquire access tokens directly from Azure Instance Metadata Service (IMDS), reducing credential leakage risk and simplifying credential rotation for self-managed and cloud deployments on Azure.

    This enhancement is particularly useful for enterprise customers running TiDB on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS) or other Azure environments that require strict security controls for backup and restore operations.

    For more information, see [Documentation](link).

## Compatibility changes

### Behavior changes

> * When using [`IMPORT INTO`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md) with [Global Sort](/tidb-global-sort.md) enabled, primary key or unique index conflicts are now automatically resolved by removing all conflicting rows (none of the conflicting rows are preserved), instead of causing the task to fail. The number of conflicted rows appears in the `Result_Message` column of `SHOW IMPORT JOBS` output, and detailed conflict information is stored in cloud storage. For more information, see [`IMPORT INTO` conflict resolution](/sql-statements/sql-statement-import-into.md#conflict-resolution).

Author: ```suggestion
```

Author: removes this change from v8.5.5
